---
layout: home
---
👋 I'm glad you finally found your way here. Hopefully I'm not dead. I've been working on this for a while and I'll continue adding to it as long as I'm around. My dad kept a spiral notecard notebook with quotes, thoughts and other bits of wisdom that he passed along to me, your Uncle Jonas and Aunt Brandy. Some of them were his own and some were taken from other people or sources. What matters is he took the time to be thoughtful and compile it at all. It is especially meaningful to me since he's no longer alive and I can't have conversations with him. It gives me insight into him as a person and not just as a parent. I decided to do the same for you in a way that is unique to me. I hope you find value in these words throughout your lives.

Contained in this collection of stuff I've curated for you, I often link to things elsewhere on the web, but like things in the physical world, links sometimes go away. Hopefully, most of the links continue to work, as they often provide additional context or insight, but ultimately it's the content that matters most. It is not my intention to have you read through this in the order it appears below. Every link stands on its own, so feel free to click around.

One last thing about the formatting of this site and all of the pages — I realize it all looks very plain. This is by design. Think of it as future-proofing. The simpler the formatting, the more likely it will be able to be viewed long into the future. The most important thing is that this reaches you, is viewable on any device for your entire life and outlives me. Each of these pages was hand-coded by me, using the skills I learned in the early days of the [World Wide Web](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Wide_Web).