---
layout: post
title: Essential films to see at some point
date: 2024-01-01
author: Brad Barrish
description: 
ogimage: opengraphimage.jpeg
---
Depending on when you read this, some of these movies may or may not be age-appropriate. I have to admit that while there are films I've enjoyed and a few that had an impact on me, I'm not a huge film fan and I don't really spend much time watching them. It's currently late-2024 and most films are sequels, adaptations or remakes and at least as it pertains to mainstream films, it's pretty boring. Seek out indie films and filmmakers. There will always be auteurs. These are some of my favorite movies, in no particular order and is inevitably incomplete.  

Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory (1971)
The film is based on the book, [[Charlie and the Chocolate Factory]] (1964) by Roald Dahl. Make sure you read the book. The great thing about this movie is you can watch it at any age and you will be entertained and learn something new.

My Neighbor Totoro (1988)
This is a Japanese animated film, written and directed by Hayao Miyazaki. Perhaps one of the greatest animated films of all time.

Apocalypse Now (1979)
Another of my dad's favorite films. It's a disturbing look at what humans are capable of, especially in wartime. It is loosely based on the 1899 novella [[Heart of Darkness]] by [[Joseph Conrad]], which you should read, but that's a different list.

Rushmore (1998)
I highly recommend exploring Wes Anderson's other films as well. The soundtrack to this film is incredible. I have listened to it countless times more times than probably any other soundtrack

2001: A Space Odyssey (1968)
One of the greatest films of all time by one of the greatest filmmakers of all time, [[Stanley Kubrick]]. That's all I will say about it.

Wings of Desire (1987)
I didn't see this film until I was in my early 20s. [[Wim Wenders]] (pronounced Vim Venders since he's German) is such a special filmmaker. Seek out his other films. This is a beautiful film about love and angels. One of my favorite music artists and writers, [[Nick Cave]], performs in the film.

E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial (1982)
This was the first movie I saw in a theatre. I was 8 years old. I cry every single time I watch it, which you have witnessed. I think watching this for one of our family movie nights was perhaps the first time you saw me ugly cry, which really freaked you out. 

Stand By Me (1986)
Speaking of ugly crying, this one will definitely do it. I saw this with my dad in a theatre. I was 12 years old. The theatre was at a shopping center called Ranchmart in [[Overland Park, Kansas]]. The shopping center is still there, but theater is not. The movie makes me think of my dad.

Akira (1988)
This is the first Japanese animated films I remember seeing. I was lucky enough to see this in a theatre, though it was long after it was released. Even though technology has advanced so much since the film was made, it still looks amazing and feels so futuristic. It's one of the greatest animated films of all time.

The Matrix (1999)
I've seen this movie over a dozen times and I still love it. I originally saw it on a date at the famous Mann Chinese Theatre in Hollywood. This was before they renovated Hollywood Blvd. The other films in the trilogy aren't great. 

Cinema Paradiso (1988)
This is a beautiful Italian film that many believe is one of the greatest films of all time. I'm not sure about that, but it is a great film. 

Ferris Bueller's Day Off (1986)
You know how much I love this classic film and you have both already seen it a few times, if not more.