---
layout: post
title: On truth
date: 2024-01-01
author: Brad Barrish
description: 
ogimage: opengraphimage.jpeg
---

>"Nowadays, anyone who wishes to combat lies and ignorance and to write the truth must overcome at least five difficulties. He must have the courage to write the truth when truth is everywhere opposed; the keenness to recognize it, although it is everywhere concealed; the skill to manipulate it as a weapon; the judgement to select in whose hands it will be effective, and the cunning to spread the truth among such persons."

— Bertolt Brecht

The above quote was taken from John Markoff’s [retirement post](https://www.wired.com/2016/12/i-covered-tech-for-the-times-for-28-years-and-now-my-time-is-over/). Read his books. He is one of the greatest journalists the world has known. I particularly enjoyed “Takedown,” which he wrote with Tsutomu Shimomura.

Truth is of high importance. People will lie to you. Your government will lie to you. Companies will lie to you. They will all lie to you in order to get something from you, not the least of which is to get you to believe things that they want you to believe. Idiots accept information at face value. Morons go through life without questioning the information they are presented. You are not idiots or morons. You are smart. You will question. You will inquire. You will not accept information at face value. Ask why. Ask yourself. Ask those presenting you with information. One of the best ways to get someone to explain something to you is to simply say, “I do not understand. Please explain.” You must always do the hard work to get to the truth. Searching for the truth, being inquisitive by nature, will serve you tremendously. It will set you apart. Do not follow others blindly. Lead.